One day, the Hajja was sitting in the middle of the
tea chain and drinking tea.
The tea-gatherer approached him
and asked the Hajja to take this
horse home.
What he objected to.
I don’t know where her home is.
You just lead her along the road, she
will find her own home, said the tea-maker.
That was what Hajja did.
He led the horse along the road and
when she told, he forced her
back on the road.
Finally, the horse turned into the yard and the
Hajja turned behind her.
Suddenly the master went out and said
to the heath, “Mr. How did you know
that this is my horse?”
What has Haja answered?
I didn’t know it was your horse.
I just drew her attention to the road.
So I wanted to show you
that Marxism is a science that
shows what the path is, which the
successful businessmen
go, what the road to profit.
A little about Marx’s history.
Marxism is a relatively new science.
The term Marxism first appeared at the turn
of the 19th and 20th centuries.
In the United States it was
considered as a methodology and organization
of household operations.
Since the 1930s, Marxism has become
integrated into the function
of entrepreneurship.
This was due to the problems
faced primarily by the
American economy.
You probably remember that in the
year 29th, the crisis broke out in
America, which was later called the
Great Depression.
It was the Americans who first noticed
that they learned to produce
so much goods, but that these goods
were not needed by society.
The barge with grain was melted
in the Atlantic Ocean.
And it is this depression that has helped
many businessmen to understand that
it is important not to produce what
you know, but to produce what you
need.
And it is from the 1930s that Marxism
became the so-called integrated
function that unites all business,
finance, production, and
human resources management.
Since the 1960s, Marxism
has extended to such industries
as non-profit organizations and
services.
It is a new trend that
is very popular in
Europe but has not yet
captured the Russian market.
Since the 1990s, Marxism has
been viewed from the perspective
of so-called ethical or
socially responsible business.
The first problem a marketer
faces is the diversity
of definitions.
In the scientific literature, some
scientists believe there are two and
a half thousand, some claim that
there are five thousand, some
claim that there are thousands of definitions.
So it would be very important for me to
understand what Marxism looks like in general.
There are four levels of Marxism in
the enterprise.
The first is the marxism of products, the second
is the marxism of the company, the third is
the marxism of the executives, the
fourth is the marxism itself.
In English, it is called Marxism yourself.
In addition, we face the fact that
we have to understand the context
of our business.
Depending on where we work,
we are more interested in
industrial marxing, famous
B2B, consumer goods
marxing, so-called B2C
marxing, services marxing,
public and charitable
marxing, or international
marxing.
There have been many other Marxists
recently that are related
to technology.
You’ve probably heard that there
is creative marxing, lateral
marxing, provocative
marxing, classical,
competitive, strategic,
tactical, programable,
and finally socially
responsible.
Some of you probably know the
famous Kotler Driad, which states
that, among other things, in a
company, especially in a small
and medium-sized business,
we must take care not only
of classical marxing, but also
of internal marxing, and
of marxing of relationships.
And finally the last.
There is another aspect
of Marxism that today so
interests Russian entrepreneurs.
This is actually the Marxism of
attracting customers and the Marxism of
retaining customers.
Of all this set of Marxists, I
would like to focus on one thing
I have called Strategic Marxism.
Unfortunately, in Russia, too little attention
is paid to him, rather referring
to the fact that there is no time,
or wanting to get a quick profit.
Strategic marxing is, in fact,
what determines the structure
of our course – it is the ability
to segment the market, select
target audiences and position
your products and companies.
A small preamble before we begin.
In one of the kiosks at the Academy
of Economics, I bought a pen from the
Japanese firm Zebra.
This pen is no different, except
that it smells of vanilla.
And when a man writes a letter, he
hears that smell.
The second pen, which, again, this
company releases, is also
very unusual.
You can use different colors at the same time.
But more fun for me was
the pen of the Japanese company
"Kakuya", which opens very peculiarly.
Most of my students can
never open it because they
are used to opening it in two ways.
Either so or so.
It actually opens when it breaks
in the middle.
This is what determines the success of
the company in many cases.
What happened here?
Japanese companies have realized that
they need to segment the market, look
for new niches, and not just sell a product
and try to play with price or
advertising.
Look at this slide.
The first three definitions are very
important for strategic Marxism.
The first is segmentation.
In Russian, these two terms are used,
although in translation from
English it literally means "segmentation".
But Russian-language publications are
more prone to segmentation.
This is the division of the market into
small groups, each of which
requires a separate Marxist approach
or a separate product.
We will dedicate a part of our
work to this topic.
Next, the next step is the selection of
target segments, the selection of the target
audience, the assessment
of the attractiveness of each segment
and the selection of one or more
segments for development.
And finally, the
last fundamental principle is positioning.
So the segmentation.
The famous Kotler definition.
Identification of clearly identified
groups of consumers within the
market, which differ
in their needs, characteristics
or behavior, for the service
of which certain goods
or marketing complexes
may be required.
I think this definition is very
important to understand.
If you see different consumers
on the market, you need to understand
whether they need to offer a different
pen or treat differently to
make a purchase and they
use the famous 4P differently.
And to explain the importance of
market segmentation, I would like
to tell you a little about the prehistory.
When restructuring processes
began in Russia, most companies
that were engaged in business
were inclined to so-
called mass marketing.
What does this mean?
There were three segments in the market.
1, 2 and 3.
People are rich and poor, middle
class, but the company offered
the same product.
An example is the famous newspaper
hand in hand, which is still
being published.
It offered advertisers services
on advertising, such as
real estate, sales of household
electronics, sales of cars,
building materials
and much more.
Unfortunately or fortunately, the
market has grown very dynamically.
There has been competition in the market,
and many companies have realized that
each of the segments needs their
own products.
This is the basis of
differentiated marketing.
What does this mean?
The company thinks that there are different
segments, and for them you need
to create your products.
So there were masses of advertising
publications that advertised
computers, real estate,
food, cars.
And from hand to hand the newspaper begins
to experience huge problems.
But strangely enough, small
often have to limit themselves
to the third level of marketing,
which is called
concentrated
marketing.
What does this mean?
I understand that I
cannot serve all markets,
I cannot serve large and small,
I cannot serve, for example,
the gas or oil industry,
and I have to focus
on one segment.
This type of marketing is called
concentrated marketing.
In conclusion, I can only
say that concentrated marketing
and differentiated marketing
are what enables companies
to survive.
Mass marketing will sooner or later
lead to bankruptcy.
To show you what segmentation gives
companies, I would like to take
the example of Johnny Walker,
a famous whisky that is produced
in Scotland.
Until 1980, despite its centuries-
old history, Johnny Walker was
produced in one form – Johnny Walker
Red Label.
It cost £9 per liter in the UK.
Despite its marketing efforts,
the company was unable to increase
its sales.
This market is very competitive.
And then, since 1980, the company
has realized that it is
necessary to move from undifferentiated
mass marketing to differentiated
marketing.
This is how new brands are created.
Johnny Walker Red Label remains
the leading product.
Then there are Black Label, Swing,
Blue and Honor.
Note that their prices vary
significantly.
For example, the last type of
whisky is sold at £129 per liter.
The company did not increase its sales
in deciliters, but it significantly increased
its profit.
What did it show?
This showed that the company has
created that there are different consumers
on the market that need different
products.
For example, for daily consumption
I can buy Red Label, but if
I go to the guests, I’m apparently
ashamed to buy a cheap bottle
of whisky.
I’m likely to buy Black Label,
but if I go to my boss for my
anniversary, I might want to
buy Honor.
The advantage of segmentation can also
be reflected in the example
shown in this slide.
Many airlines began to create
differentiated marketing, creating
in their cabin tickets economy,
business and first class.
And you will notice on this slide
that a mass company loads the
aircraft at a standard price in
the economy class, for example,
at a price of £250, it gets
only by filling the entire aircraft,
only £5200 of profit.
And a company that creates, for
example, differentiation within even
one aircraft, creating an economy,
business and first class, earns
more than £37,000 in profit
on one flight.
This is the key element
of why market segmentation
is needed.
I have shown you a few examples
that confirm that segmentation
is a very important tool
for increasing sales.
But in reality, segmentation
plays several other
roles.
The first is that it affects
the company’s image, it
shows the company’s growth prospects
and, of course, it allows you
to focus resources deeper or concentrate
resources on the most
attractive segments.
The problem of segmentation is always the
most difficult, because it is
not an intellectual exercise.
Mr. Kotler, who loves the
trades in Russia, divides
the market into consumer
goods and industrial goods,
suggesting that each market
has its own approach to
segmentation.
If you’re working in the
consumer goods market, you might
like geographical, demographic,
psychographic, behavioral
variables for segmentation.
The market for industrial goods is more complex.
Here, such factors as demographic
factors, for example, the
organization of procurement and individual
characteristics of
customers, are very important.
It is this market that is considered
to be the most difficult, but,
nevertheless, there is a certain rule
on how you can segment the market.
My question.
First, determine which market you
are operating in, and then answer
the question of whether
there are certain groups of
customers that differ in their
behavior, that is, show
behavioral homogeneity
when purchasing your
product.
Let it be called a qualitative
survey, to find out if there
are among your consumers who respond
the same way to your martering,
or make the same demands
when making a
purchase.
Now, let’s go to a small
practical exercise.
Propose your option
of segmenting the retail consumer
market.
When I ask this question at
many seminars, people try to
find the answer and offer
to segment consumers by
income, gender, age.
In fact, it is not a very simple
question.
And so, to go back to it, I would
like to show you that there
is no algorithm in segmentation
by which any person can, by
doing one thing, move to another,
complete this process
effectively.
This is the first step.
And the second issue I always consider
on my programs is the segmentation
of one of the very famous
English companies Crystal
Clea, which produces lead
crystal.
This brand of the company is considered
prestigious, and its products are highly
valued and purchased mainly in the
form of gifts.
And, as a rule, in order to
show the diversity of
segmentation, these two examples
are very visible.
Now look at the answer to the first question.
See how retail networks
segment their consumers.
As strange as it may be, two facts
are very important to them.
It’s how often people go to
shops and how much they buy.
And on this basis, there are
four main segments that are important
for retail chains, often multi-buyers.
These are regular customers who
come to shops and on Saturdays usually
buy large carts of products
for the whole week.
Often but not much buyers.
These are customers who live near shops,
they often come in, for example,
grandmothers, students, but unfortunately
they buy little.
Rarely but many buyers.
People generally rarely come
to this store, a random
buyer who, fortunately, buys
a lot, buying the whole cart.
Finally, a segment that
is rarely called buyers or not
buyers at all.
With respect to each segment,
the company must build its policy
and choose the means to engage
them in sales.
Now look at the answer to how the
famous English company Crystal
Clea makes its segmentation.
She figured on products.
Usual gifts for various
anniversaries, retirement,
birthday, romantic
dates, public holiday and
festival.
The second segment is wedding gifts,
when young couples start
to start with expensive dishes
for their home.
Gifts such as money positioning,
business gifts and presentations
to promote sales, and special
gifts such as prizes at
sports competitions.
This segmentation makes it possible for
the company to understand the following:
if it is important to work with
retail chains for the first three segments,
then direct sales are important
for the last two segments.
I would like to show you the
segmentation of the Nokia mobile
phone market.
Everyone is a Nokia buyer,
and when we approach
the mobile phone stand,
we are unconsciously
the tool for
segmenting ourselves.
Nokia has four groups
of consumers: style-
oriented buyers, image-
oriented buyers, businessmen
and practical-oriented
buyers.
In each case, the company
offers its product, understanding
that in this way it does not leave
competitors a niche in which
it can work and make money.
At the same time, pay attention
to this slide and tell what
type of buyers you are in terms
of Nokia segmentation.
Segmentation in the impetus seems to
me to be the most difficult topic as
mobile operators today seek to
segment the market.
I asked questions, understanding
that it could not be perfectly
segmentation, but nevertheless,
by holding classes with different
groups of listeners, I was convinced
that most of them somehow pursue
the following goals, and,
accordingly, may relate
to a group of segments, students,
are people who speak
little and pay little.
The second group are young families,
they talk a lot, but they don’t
have enough money and therefore pay little.
Entrepreneurs, this category, is a lot
of talking, but the average pay and
finally are well-off, a lot of talking
and a lot of paying.
A peculiarity of segmentation in general
is that when a marketer proceeds
with this procedure, he must understand
the following.
It is important for him not only to highlight
variable segmentations, but also
to name his market segments beautifully.
This culture of marketing, it
is, of course, different
from financial culture, or
culture, for example, human resources
management and therefore a very
important element is how
we call our consumer groups.
If we look at the Russian
Internet, we will note that
almost all the photographs
of athletes are borrowed
from this magazine.
If we approach, for example,
the segmentation of the magazine
market, there are a lot of ideas,
but, nevertheless, this
option shows how unsystemic
segmentation is.
This is the firm segmentation
of this famous magazine.
Those who want to have fun are
the first segment that Sport Illustrated
would like to satisfy with its
magazine articles.
Those who need facts about sports
are offered reviews, statistics,
biographies, collectors
of sports related items.
For this, the magazine publishes various
types of stories and tells about objects.
And finally, those who need advice.
Note that there are several criteria
here in segmentation, and therefore
it is very difficult to say
why the disease or other
are chosen.
The consequence of this segmentation
is the policy of this magazine.
See, Sport Illustrated
magazine, in addition to releasing
a magazine with
relevant headings for its readers,
also releases specialized
publications, materials,
books, videos, children's
edition, and finally
organizes trips to sports events.
What I wanted to show in this
way is that market segmentation
often pushes companies to expand
their service scope by understanding
what their customers are
asking for.
Now about that slide.
Per 80% of people who come
to marketing seminars in Russia
are people who, to some extent,
represent the so-called B2B
sector, business to business.
These are people who work in
the company and through direct
sales or work with customers directly
sell, for example, metal,
machinery, components and
much more.
Often they ask how to segment
their consumers and what to
do in a situation when price
competition is growing.
I always go back to this
situation and show this slide.
The most important thing if you
want to get away from your
competitor and make money in the
conditions of growing competition
is the right segmentation.
Nearly 60% of companies in the B2B
sector in Europe segment the market
in the following way.
Those who are price-oriented, those
who are service-oriented and those
who are long-term relationships-oriented.
This policy should
also be applied to Russian
companies.
There are buyers in your company
who are very important to the price.
And if you are going to offer a higher
price than the competitors, they
are likely to turn to the latter.
And so you should understand that
if you think that segment is important
to you and you want to sell
it, know that for that segment you
need to offer a low price and a
minimum set of services and features.
The second segment is the customer
who is service-oriented.
These are buyers who are willing
to overpay if you are providing
delivery, training, payment
fee, or something else.
Finally, the third segment, very
important at least in Europe,
is buyers who are focused
on long-term relationships.
As a rule, large companies, such
as factories that produce cars,
household appliances, are interested
in making their suppliers reliable,
and in this regard they may
be less interested, for
example, in the price
in greater degree.
How ready you are to produce the
first reliable, second quality
products, and how stable
you are ready to deliver these
products, for example,
the envelope exactly on time.
Look at this slide, I think it’
s very important to describe
segmentation in the B2B sector.
This is a study by McKinsey,
steel consumers.
Why do they choose how they
choose suppliers?
Note that McKinsey also refers
to the fact that there are three
types of segments in this
industry – customers that are
price-oriented, and services that
are long-term.
And if you take the rating criteria,
one non-important, four important,
four-point system, you will
pay attention to the following that
each segment presents its own
requirements, to the next each
segment of buyers offers
its own requirements to the supplier.
For example, the lowest price
you see is interested in the first
segment, it is a price-oriented segment.
And companies, so-called, interested
in the service are more interested
in other aspects than the
valuable, and are willing
to pay a higher price.
Note, for those who buy at a low
price, and in Russia this is
a mass of small and medium-sized enterprises,
for example, buying the same metal,
are interested in instantaneous
response, timely delivery.
To companies that are interested
in the first place service, it is very
important for them to immediately
respond, to make goods in
stock, timely delivery
and customer orientation during
the transaction.
The following slide shows that
there are several other criteria
for buyers in the B2B sector,
such as short delivery time, how
long products should be delivered.
I pointed out that, for example,
companies that are service-oriented
would like to receive these companies
with an interest in technical
support or, for example,
industry loyalty, that is, manufacturer
commitment to that industry.
Pay attention to the following factors
of the company, for which long-
term relationships are very important,
usually interested in developing
their supplier, and therefore
important to them, how much the
supplier company
is interested in research, private
scientific investments in the nick,
whether it is willing to support
its supplier with various types
of technical advice, and for
her, of course, very important is
the loyalty, loyalty of this supplier
to the industry, namely,
how long you, as a supplier, expect
to work in this industry, or you,
in any successful case, are
ready to leave this industry
and find the best application
for your finances.
I would like you to ask the following
question, following the results
of this short lecture, if you can
describe the products for each segment,
what this means.
Those materials that work spend
that are attached to our drive,
allow you to do the following,
first, try to select market
segments, second, you need to assess
market segments, you will see a
system of criteria that are offered
within my course, but very important
is the third aspect when you
do, for example, segmentation
exercises, you need to say
how the product should
look, product for that
segment.
This means that you cannot sell
a single product in pursuit of
the objectives of mass marxism.
Product for each segment
means not only a base product,
but also a set of services
that ensure timely delivery
of customers.
Please think about how you
design your product.
A little hint, I would like you
to understand that price-oriented
segments will never buy a
product if the price is high.
So offer him this product,
but clean this product from all
the loads that are only possible.
Make it basic.
But for segments that are focused
on quality, service and long-
term relationships, there
must be different products.
This is very difficult to imagine for
a company selling, for example, metal,
which does not even see the difference
between having buyers from
the one and the second segment.
A very important element of
market segmentation is the segmentation
of the market by income.
More well-known in Russia is the
segmentation that Mr. Kotler
offers, namely he segments
consumers by classes, for
example, the upper class, middle
class, lower.
In addition, each class has its
subgroups.
I would like to say that Marxism
is very diverse.
And, for example, here I am bringing
the so-called O'Corn segmentation,
which was developed by English marketers.
Note that in this segmentation
there is also some division
of people in income according
to where they live.
But yet, it is still very
important to me how marketers
call these segments.
The traditional American approach
of the upper or middle class,
or lower, here breaks up into a very
creative name of segments, and
the successful people, 19.8%,
are expanding, their slightly
more than 11%, growing, stable,
aspiring and probing.
I always ask my students.
Tell me, please, where do
you place yourself in this segmentation?
Accord segmentation is very
creative because it makes it
clear that each group consumes different
products, reads different newspapers,
and visits different places
of rest.
Final task of this course.
When I say you’re doing market
segmentation, I want you to
be aware of the following.
Segmentation is not a kind
of intellectual exercise that
allows you to understand that there
are customers rich and poor,
there are large and small.
Segmentation is a tool that
shows a company, in fact,
to a shareholder often, how
we can increase sales.
Therefore, I say that the
key task of this topic is as follows.
Segment your customers
as you want.
For this, read the textbook
or think about how it looks
in real life.
and further.
Formulate goals for each segment
in the context of increased sales.
What does this mean?
What do you want from this segment?
Increase in sales?
Either keep current sales, or,
on the contrary, reduce sales.
and the third.
You must identify the key factor
of impact on this segment.
What does this mean?
How can markfing influence
this segment to the
goal?
In truth, when I speak of this
approach to segmentation,
I mean that every company should
have its own Marxist policy.
I once had to face an unusual
situation in Russia.
One of my seminar attendees
came to the seminars and
said that her new CEO
had demanded a Marxist policy.
He asked what Marxist
politics is.
And looking in her eyes, I said
that Marxist politics is this
slide.
Because your director would like
to understand if there are any differences
in the buyer of your products
and how the company affects
each of these buyers.
And if this is not the task, consider
that you do not have
a Marxist policy.
Rather, you have the option of
a household policy associated
with various types of stocks
and manipulations, range or price.
You have no Marxist policy.
The most interesting, I think, in
terms of analysis of the selection
of target segments, is the
model proposed by the Englishman
Dip Simkin.
It is called the ABC method.
This method is very unusual for
Russians because it shows the following
system of assessments.
Every company has a volume and
sales in a particular segment.
Sales are high, medium
or low.
The company receives some margin from
selling its products in the segment.
It can be low, medium, high.
If you look at this slide, the
ideal marxing is when you select
segments in such a way that
the maximum sales fall on
the segment that brings
a high margin.
And the minimum for the segment that
brings the minimum margin.
This is called the ABC method.
Look at the ABC method by Dip
Simkin.
It is a little different from traditional ones.
So the task of Marxing to select
segments A that bring the maximum
margin and ensure the maximum
sales in that segment, then
to find a segment that brings
the average margin and provide
the average margin, should take
up an entirely small share of
our sales.
Unfortunately, when we discuss this
model, at seminars I draw attention
to the fact that business in Russian
companies is built exactly
the opposite.
It is a mirror.
As a rule, the volume of sales
for products that bring the
minimum margin is maximum, and where
products are sold with a high
margin, there is almost
a minimum sale.
Imagine this situation in this way.
I am answered, but differently.
And I remember a very funny
story that a student told
me at one of my courses.
She said, buying expensive
and selling cheap is the easiest
thing, but learning to sell
expensive and buy cheap is
the art of business.